Style Guide Documentation (#2574)
fastify/fastify: docs/Style-Guide.md

This guide is for anyone who loves to build with Fastify or want to contribute to our documentation. You don't need to be an expert in writing technical documentation. Our guideline is here to help you.
<br>

Visit the [contribute](https://www.fastify.io/contribute) page on our website or read the [CONTRIBUTE.MD](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) on Github to join our fellow Open Sourcers.

<br>
<br>

## Before you write

You need to have knowledge the following below:

* JavaScript
* Node.js
* Git
* Github
* Markdown
* HTTP
* NPM 

<br>

### Consider your Audience

<br>

Before you start writing, think about who your audience. In this case, know HTTP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NPM, and NodeJs. It is important to put them in mind because they are the one consuming your content. You want to give them as much useful information as possible. Consider the necessary things they to know and how they can get them, make references and use words they can easily relate. As for feedback from the community, it can help you write better documentation that focuses on the user and what you want to achieve.

<br>

### Get straight to the point

<br>

> Give your readers a clear and precise action to take.

Reviewer: Can you please add an example?

Author: Will do that in my next update to the draft.

<br>

### Starting with a verb

<br>
<!-- content here -->

Mostly start your description with a verb, which makes it simple and precise for the reader to follow. Use present tense in more often as it is easier to read and understand than the past or future tense.

Example

- [ ] Less like this: There is a need for Nodejs to be installed before you can be able to use fastify.

- [x] More like this: Install Nodejs to make use of fastify 

<br>

### Grammatical moods 

<br>

<!-- content here -->

Grammatical moods is a great way to express your writing, don't want to sound too bossy while making a direct statement. Know when to switch between indicative, imperative, and Subjunctive moods.

<br>

**Indicative** - Use when making a factual statement or question. 

Example: Since there is no testing framework available, "we do recommend ways to write your test".

<br>

**Imperative** - Use when giving instructions, actions, commands, or when you write your headings.

Example: Install dependencies before you start application development mode.

<br>

**Subjunctive** -  Use when making suggestions, hypothesis or non-factual statement.

> Example: We recommend you read the documentation on our website to get full information on the plugins.

Reviewer: All those examples use "we" instead of "you"

Author: Thanks for pointing that out, I'll rephrase this example.

# Fastify Style Guide

## Welcome

Welcome to *Fastify Style Guide*. This guide is here to provide you with a conventional writing style for users writing developer documentation for our Open Source framework. Each topic is precise and well explained to help you write documentation users can easily understand and implement.

<br>
<br>

## Who is this guide for?

This guide is for anyone who loves to build with Fastify or want to contribute to our documentation. You don't need to be an expert in writing technical documentation. Our guideline is here to help you.
<br>

Visit the [contribute](https://www.fastify.io/contribute) page on our website or read the [CONTRIBUTE.MD](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) on Github to join our fellow Open Sourcers.

<br>
<br>

## Before you write

You need to know the following:

* JavaScript
* Node.js
* Git
* Github
* Markdown
* HTTP
* NPM 

> <br>

Reviewer 2: I think none of these `<br>` are needed. Why are you adding them?

Author: I added `<br>`  to separate each topic so that I can add more information to them later when I need to. They will be removed once I'm done. 

Would you like me to delete them from the repo?

Reviewer 2: It's fine to keep them as placeholders, but definitely remove them before merging this pr. Thanks!

> 

Author: I'll work on clearing that out.

<br>

### Get straight to the point

<br>

Give your readers a clear and precise action to take. Start with what is most important for your readers. This way, you can help them find what they need faster. Mostly, readers tend to read the first content on a page, and many will not scroll further.

**Example**

Less like this: Colons are very important to register a parametric path. It lets the framework know a there is a new parameter created. You can place the colon before the parameter name for the parametric path can be created.

More Like this: To register a parametric path, put a colon before the parameter name. Using colon lets the framework know it is a parametric path and not a wild card.

<br>

### Avoid adding video or image content 

<br>

Do not add videos or screenshots. Instead, make a referral link or a youtube video. You can add links by using `[Title](www.websitename.com)` in the markdown.

**Example**

`To learn more about hooks, See [Fastify hooks](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Hooks).`

Result:

> >To learn more about hooks, See [Fastify hooks](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Hooks/).

Author: one the markdown and the other shows the result.

<img width="871" alt="Screenshot 2020-10-15 at 3 18 24 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7862178/96142170-ae5e6700-0ef9-11eb-95f9-3f9ebda3b82e.png">

# Fastify Style Guide

## Welcome

Welcome to *Fastify Style Guide*. This guide is here to provide you with a conventional writing style for users writing developer documentation on our Open Source framework. Each topic is precise and well explained to help you write documentation users can easily understand and implement.

## Who is this guide for?

> This guide is for anyone who loves to build with Fastify or want to contribute to our documentation. You don't need to be an expert in writing technical documentation. Our guideline is here to help you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide is for anyone who loves to build with Fastify or wants to contribute to our documentation. You don't need to be an expert in writing technical documentation. This guide is here to help you.
```

> Visit the [contribute](https://www.fastify.io/contribute) page on our website or read the [CONTRIBUTE.md](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file on Github to join our Open Source folks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Visit the [contribute](https://www.fastify.io/contribute) page on our website or read the [CONTRIBUTE.md](/CONTRIBUTING.md) file on Github to join our Open Source folks.
```

## Before you write

You need to know the following:

* JavaScript
* Node.js
* Git
* Github
* Markdown
* HTTP
* NPM 

### Consider your Audience

> Before you start writing, think about who your audience. In this case, your audience should already know HTTP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NPM and NodeJs. It's necessary to put your readers in mind because they are the one consuming your content. You want to give as much useful information as possible. Consider the vital things they need to know and how they can get them, make references and use words readers can relate with easily. Ask for feedback from the community, it can help you write better documentation that focus on the user and what you want to achieve.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you start writing, think about your audience. In this case, your audience should already know HTTP, JavaScript, NPM and NodeJs. It's necessary to keep your readers in mind because they are the one consuming your content. You want to give as much useful information as possible. Consider the vital things they need to know and how they can understand them. Make references and use words readers can relate with easily. Ask for feedback from the community: it can help you write better documentation that focuses on the user and what you want to achieve.
```

### Get straight to the point

Give your readers a clear and precise action to take. Start with what is most important. This way, you can help them find what they need faster. Mostly, readers tend to read the first content on a page, and many will not scroll further.

**Example**

> Less like this: Colons are very important to register a parametric path. It lets the framework know a there is a new parameter created. You can place the colon before the parameter name for the parametric path can be created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Less like this: Colons are very important to register a parametric path. It lets the framework know there is a new parameter created. You can place the colon before the parameter name so the parametric path can be created.
```

> More Like this: To register a parametric path, put a colon before the parameter name. Using colon lets the framework know it is a parametric path and not a wild card.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More Like this: To register a parametric path, put a colon before the parameter name. Using a colon lets the framework know it is a parametric path and not a static path.
```

### Avoid adding video or image content 

Do not add videos or screenshots in the documentation. It is easier to keep under version control. Videos and images will eventually end up becoming outdated as new updates keep developing. Instead, make a referral link or a youtube video. You can add links by using `[Title](www.websitename.com)` in the markdown.

**Example**

```
To learn more about hooks, See [Fastify hooks](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Hooks).
```

Result:
>To learn more about hooks, See [Fastify hooks](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Hooks/).

### Avoid plagiarism

> Make sure you evade copying other people's work, keep it as original as possible. You can learn from what they've done and also reference where it's from if you used a particular quote from their work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure you avoid copying other people's work. Keep it as original as possible. You can learn from what they've done and also reference where it's from if you used a particular quote from their work.
```

## Word Choice

> There are a few things you need to use and avoid when writing your documentation which will improve readability for readers and also make documentations neat, direct and clean all through your writing process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are a few things you need to use and avoid when writing your documentation to improve readability for readers and also make documentation neat, direct, and clean.
```

### When to use the second person "you" as the pronoun

> When writing articles or step-by-step guides, your content should communicate directly to readers who is the second person ("you") addressed. It is easier to give them direct instruction on what to do on a particular topic. To see an example, visit the [Plugins-guide.md](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/df9fbc183fa05fa1a23781b3f11fbf81f6854033/docs/Plugins-Guide.md) page on Github. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When writing articles or guides, your content should communicate directly to readers in the second person ("you") addressed form. It is easier to give them direct instruction on what to do on a particular topic. To see an example, visit the [Plugins-guide.md](/docs/Plugins-Guide.md) page on Github. 
```

**Example**

Less Like this: we can use the following plugins.

More like this: You can use the following plugins.

> According to [Wikipedia](#), ***You*** is usually a second person pronoun. Also, used to refer to an indeterminate person, as a more common alternative to a very formal indefinite pronoun.

## When to avoid second person "you" as the pronoun

> One of the main rules of formal writing such as references, synthesis and also in API documentation is to avoid second person ("you"). It should not directly address the user even when the word "you" is almost unavoidable when writing, but there are ways to avoid second person. Below are some alternative examples you can use to evade them. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the main rules of formal writing such as reference documentation, or API documentation, is to avoid second person ("you"), avoiding directly addressing the reader.
```

There is only one example, so saying that "below are some examples" is not helpful.

Frankly, this section could be a document unto itself, e.g. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/developer-content/reference-documentation

**Example**

Less Like this: You can use the following recommendation as an example.

> More like this: As an example, The following are recommendations to use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More like this: As an example, the following recommendations should be referenced.
```

> To view a documented example, visit the [Decorators.md](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/df9fbc183fa05fa1a23781b3f11fbf81f6854033/docs/Decorators.md) page on Github. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To view a live example, refer to the [Decorators.md](/docs/Decorators.md) reference document. 
```

> ### Avoid writing condescending languages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Avoid using condescending terms
```

Reviewer 3: FWIW, I don't consider any of these "condescending." What they are is poor form. They are the usage of common colloquialisms, which are easily depended upon within the informal style promoted by the "guides style." So we are making contradictory recommendations by 1. suggesting guides can be written in an informal style and 2. prohibiting informal language.

But, whatever.

Author: Thank you for pointing that out.

I do appreciate you taking the time to go through this. Taking your highlighted concern into consideration, it's quite understandable those words are regarded as poor forms. According to [this article](https://dev.to/meeshkan/how-to-remove-condescending-language-from-documentation-4a5p) recommended by @delvedor, "condescending" _was defined as words that are offensive and also words that give an impression of something that makes people feel inadequate or hurt if they don't immediately understand it_.

The goal was to follow that same approach, I could make that topic more comprehensive to avoid context that may seem contradictory with the style guide.

Still, I'd really appreciate any feedback or recommendations that can help me improve my current work. 🙂

> Condescending languages are words that include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Condescending terms are words that include:
```

* Just 
* Easy
* Simply
* Basically
* Obviously

The reader may not find it easy to use the Fastify's framework and plugins, so avoid words that make it sound simple or easy. Not everyone who reads the documentation has the same level of understanding.

### Starting with a verb

> Mostly start your description with a verb, which makes it simple and precise for the reader to follow. Use present tense more often, it's easier to read and understand than the past or future tense.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mostly start your description with a verb, which makes it simple and precise for the reader to follow. Prefer usage present tense because it's easier to read and understand than the past or future tense.
```

FWIW, I can't even begin to tell you what a "verb" is.

**Example**

>  Less like this: There is a need for Nodejs to be installed before you can be able to use fastify.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 Less like this: There is a need for Nodejs to be installed before you can be able to use Fastify.
```

>  More like this: Install Nodejs to make use of fastify.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 More like this: Install Nodejs to make use of Fastify.
```

### Grammatical moods 

> Grammatical moods is a great way to express your writing, don't want to sound too bossy while making a direct statement. Know when to switch between indicative, imperative, and Subjunctive moods.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Grammatical moods is a great way to express your writing. Avoid sounding too bossy while making a direct statement. Know when to switch between indicative, imperative, and subjunctive moods.
```

**Indicative** - Use when making a factual statement or question. 

> Example: Since there is no testing framework available, "fastify recommend ways to write tests".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example: Since there is no testing framework available, "Fastify recommends ways to write tests".
```

**Imperative** - Use when giving instructions, actions, commands, or when you write your headings.

> Example: Install dependencies before starting application development mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example: Install dependencies before starting development.
```

> **Subjunctive** -  Use when making suggestions, hypothesis or non-factual statement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Subjunctive** -  Use when making suggestions, hypothesis or non-factual statements.
```

> Example: Reading the documentation on our website is recommended to get comprehensive knowledge on the framework plugin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example: Reading the documentation on our website is recommended to get comprehensive knowledge of the framework.
```

### Use **active** voice instead of **passive**

Using active voice is a more compact and direct way of conveying your documentation.

**Example**

Passive: The dependencies of the npm package is installed by nodeJs.

Active: NodeJs installs the npm package dependencies.

## Writing Style

### Documentation titles

When creating a new guide, API or reference in the `/docs/` directory, use short titles that best describe the topic of your documentation. 

> Separate each sentence with the dash *(-)* symbol, which makes your `.md` files clear and readable.

Reviewer 3: "Documentation file names should be [kebab cased](https://medium.com/better-programming/string-case-styles-camel-pascal-snake-and-kebab-case-981407998841)..."

A file name is not a sentence.

> Active: NodeJs installs the npm package dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Node.js does not do either of these things. `npm` is the package manager that installs dependencies.

Author: That is correct. The example was only to give a clear difference between active and passive voice.

Thanks for indicating the validity of my example, will put more effort into those as well.

> Separate each sentence with the dash *(-)* symbol, which makes your `.md` files clear and readable. It also increases the chance of showing up on search engines (Google, DuckDuckg or Bing) in spheres of Search Engine Optimisation.

Reviewer 3: `Separate each sentence with the dash *(-)* symbol,`

I have no idea what that means.

Author: <img width="273" alt="Screenshot 2020-10-24 at 9 13 10 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7862178/97092667-bc209480-163d-11eb-8997-63aec34f3fc7.png">

Every documentation in the `/docs/` directory is titled with the dash(-) symbol instead of separating them with spaces.
   
An example was already added to this section.

Since you asked, I think that part wasn't clear enough. I'll rewrite that section to make clear for other readers as well.

> Separate each sentence with the dash *(-)* symbol, which makes your `.md` files clear and readable. It also increases the chance of showing up on search engines (Google, DuckDuckg or Bing) in spheres of Search Engine Optimisation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Separate each sentence with the dash *(-)* symbol, which makes your `.md` files clear and readable.
```

SEO is not a real thing. And even if there _is_ something to it, it isn't anything we need to be worried about in our documentation.

**Examples**: <br>
>`hook-and-plugins.md`, <br> 
 `adding-test-plugins.md`, <br>
 `removing-requests.md`.

### Hyperlinks

Hyperlinks should have a clear title of what it references.
Here is how your hyperlink should look: 

```MD
<!-- More like this -->

// Add clear & breif description
[Fastify Plugins] (https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Plugins/)

<!--Less like this -->

// incomplete description 
[Fastify] (https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Plugins/)

// Adding title in link brackets
[](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Plugins/ "fastify plugin")

// Empty title
[](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Plugins/)

// Adding links localhost URL's instead of using code strings (``)

> [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)

Reviewer 3: I'd particularly like to see an example that prohibits "here" links, e.g. `[here](http://example.com)`.

Author: I do not understand what you mean.

Was that a suggestion to add "here" links as a good example of hyperlink titles or a bad one, if I'm correct?

Reviewer 3: Definitely under the "bad" category. "here" links are not helpful or descriptive.

# Fastify Style Guide

## Welcome

Welcome to *Fastify Style Guide*. This guide is here to provide you with a conventional writing style for users writing developer documentation on our Open Source framework. Each topic is precise and well explained to help you write documentation users can easily understand and implement.

## Who is this guide for?

This guide is for anyone who loves to build with Fastify or want to contribute to our documentation. You don't need to be an expert in writing technical documentation. Our guideline is here to help you.

> <br>

Reviewer: Please remove all the `<br>` that are not needed.

### Get straight to the point

Give your readers a clear and precise action to take. Start with what is most important. This way, you can help them find what they need faster. Mostly, readers tend to read the first content on a page, and many will not scroll further.

**Example**

Less like this: Colons are very important to register a parametric path. It lets the framework know a there is a new parameter created. You can place the colon before the parameter name for the parametric path can be created.

More Like this: To register a parametric path, put a colon before the parameter name. Using colon lets the framework know it is a parametric path and not a wild card.

> 

Reviewer: please remove the extra spaces that are not needded

More Like this: To register a parametric path, put a colon before the parameter name. Using colon lets the framework know it is a parametric path and not a wild card.

<!-- <br> -->

### Avoid adding video or image content 

<!-- <br> -->

Do not add videos or screenshots. Instead, make a referral link or a youtube video. You can add links by using `[Title](www.websitename.com)` in the markdown.

**Example**

```
To learn more about hooks, See [Fastify hooks](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Hooks).
```

Result:
>To learn more about hooks, See [Fastify hooks](https://www.fastify.io/docs/latest/Hooks/).

### Avoid plagiarism

Make sure you evade copying other people's work, keep it as original as possible. You can learn from what they've done and also reference where it's from if you used a particular quote from their work.

## Word Choice

<!-- content here -->

There are a few things you need to use and avoid when writing your documentation which will improve readability for readers and also make documentations neat, direct and clean all through your writing process.

> ### Use the second person ("you")  as the pronoun

Reviewer: This whole section does not read well, I think the title is off, maybe `When to use the second person "you" as the pronoun.

Author: Yes, that seems like a better title.

### Avoid plagiarism

Make sure you evade copying other people's work, keep it as original as possible. You can learn from what they've done and also reference where it's from if you used a particular quote from their work.

## Word Choice

<!-- content here -->

There are a few things you need to use and avoid when writing your documentation which will improve readability for readers and also make documentations neat, direct and clean all through your writing process.

### When to use the second person "you" as the pronoun

When writing articles or step-by-step guides, your content should communicate directly to readers who is the second person ("you") addressed. It is easier to give them direct instruction on what to do when a particular topic. To see an example, visit the [Plugins-guide.md](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/df9fbc183fa05fa1a23781b3f11fbf81f6854033/docs/Plugins-Guide.md) page on Github. 

> According to [Wikipedia](#), ***You*** is usually a second person pronoun. Also, used to refer to an indeterminate person, as a more common alternative to a very formal indefinite pronoun.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add an example here as well?

Author: Okay

> **When to avoid second-person pronoun**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When to avoid second-person "you" as the pronoun
```

<br>

## Word Choice

<br>

<!-- content here -->

There are a few things you need to use and avoid when writing your documentation which will improve readability to your reader and also make your documentation neat, direct and clean all through your writing process.

<br>

### Use "you" instead of we or they

<br>

<!-- content here -->

Using the word "you" makes the reader know you are speaking to them. It is easier to give them direct instruction on what to do when a particular topic. 

>  > According to [Wikipedia](#), ***You*** is usually a second person pronoun. Also, used to refer to an indeterminate person, as a more common alternative to a very formal indefinite pronoun.

Reviewer 3: I'd really like to avoid any informal tone in the documentation. Such language is acceptable in "blog posts" but not in reference material. IMHO, a great example of the style our documentation should follow is the Decorators doc -- https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/df9fbc183fa05fa1a23781b3f11fbf81f6854033/docs/Decorators.md

I re-worked that whole document to remove "you" language and I think it is much clearer for it.

Author: Thank you for the review. 

Will remodel the guide to follow a more formal approach for the documentation. It will be useful to point that out in the documentation as well.

Reviewer 3: @fastify/collaborators might have other opinions.

Reviewer: A couple of notes:

1. `we` or `they` does not read well and It's very academic. 
2. The passive voice makes concepts harder to learn.

As an example, I think it's totally ok in using `you` in https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/df9fbc183fa05fa1a23781b3f11fbf81f6854033/docs/Plugins-Guide.md. However that piece is not as crisp as https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/df9fbc183fa05fa1a23781b3f11fbf81f6854033/docs/Decorators.md is. I do not see using a more formal language in contrast with using `you` on a guide.

Note that we might want to differentiate between guides and references material.

Reviewer 3: > Note that we might want to differentiate between guides and references material.

Agreed. And our documentation needs to be clearly delineated between the two. See https://nodejs.org/en/docs/. The actual API docs, e.g. `http.IncomingMessage`, are void of any human references. But the "Guides" are informal and conversational. Guides are good for teaching, and reference is good for... referencing (acquiring a deeper knowledge of the actual implementations).

Author: > Note that we might want to differentiate between guides and references material.

I agree with this as well. The documentation will need to point out a clear difference between the two.

## When to avoid second person "you" as the pronoun

> One of the main rules of formal writing such as reference documentation, or API documentation, is to avoid second person ("you"), avoid directly addressing the reader.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the main rules of formal writing such as reference documentation, or API documentation, is to avoid second person ("you") or directly addressing the reader.
```

* Just 
* Easy
* Simply
* boogeyman 

> * His/He

Reviewer 3: Why did these change? The original two are correct. These are not.

Author: Alright.

> The reader may not find it easy to use the Fastify's framework and plugins, evade words that make it sound simple, easy, offensive, or insensitive. Not everyone who reads the documentation has the same level of understanding.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The reader may not find it easy to use the Fastify's framework and plugins, avoid words that make it sound simple, easy, offensive, or insensitive. Not everyone who reads the documentation has the same level of understanding.
```

**Example**

Passive: The node dependencies and packages are installed by npm.

> Active:  npm install packages and node dependencies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Active:  npm installs packages and node dependencies.
```

## Writing Style

### Documentation titles

> When creating a new guide, API or reference in the `/docs/` directory, use short titles that best describe the topic of your documentation. Name your files in kebab-cases and avoid Raw or camelCase. To learn more about kebab-case you can visit this medium article on [Case Styles](https://medium.com/better-programming/string-case-styles-camel-pascal-snake-and-kebab-case-981407998841)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When creating a new guide, API or reference in the `/docs/` directory, use short titles that best describe the topic of your documentation. Name your files in kebab-cases and avoid Raw or camelCase. To learn more about kebab-case you can visit this medium article on [Case Styles](https://medium.com/better-programming/string-case-styles-camel-pascal-snake-and-kebab-case-981407998841).
```
